Hello everyone and welcome to this week's Stellar Developer Meeting. Today I have a guest from the community. We are doing another one of the developer spotlights and today it's a pleasure to say welcome to Panfield also known as Tupi. So welcome and thank you for joining us today. Thanks a lot for the invite. Really crazy to be here. So I know you've been super active in the community for a very long time and I see you contribute to our documentation to some of our repos. You help out with the Stellar community funds and help out on Discord. I see your name all over the place. So I'm I'm super excited to to place. So I'm super excited to talk to you today. I would just really just as before we dive into what you're working on and your own projects like what the how did you get get into blockchain the how did you get into to Stellar in in
and how did you get into to Stellar in the way you are. Because you're very involved. Involved. Yeah. So I've been involved. Now with Stellar like actively for the last two years I would say and I really started to dive into. Because I. When I switched company I went to work for a bit ponda. So a crypto broker in Europe one of the largest and I told myself okay. If I'm going to be a developer there maybe I need to dive deeper in really a blockchain project and. Because I was a maintainer already of many open source project in the scientific python ecosystem. I told myself, okay. Now I need to do something and I knew already Stellar. It was really in the back of my head. I remember still I'm not sure. If it's still on the web page of `stellar.org`. But there was this story about somebody in Peru having some ship and they wanted to tokenize the sheep and exchange the ship for something else. And this was still in my mind and I just found, that concept fascinating. And. So I was like, okay,
that sounds like a real world utility and something, which can have some good social impact. And. So I really wanted to to get into, that space and, that's why I picked Stellar to to be the my I picked Stellar to be the my platform of choice. And yeah, also at, that time it was just before the Soroban started to to be beta and and together and yeah, I wanted to learn rest was in Rust. So I was like, that's a perfect match. So, that's how I started really to to be active in the community. Okay, that's great. So. So you said Okay, that's great. So you said you you didn't know Russ to before you started working. How how do how have the onboarding process to Soroban? How has, that been for you? You've been along for maybe a little bit longer. So. So what is experience? Experience? Yeah. So my previous experience was purely just Python. Because I'm a Python developer day-to-day job. U. So I would
developer day-to-day job. U. So I would say I'm a good Python backend developer. So zero experience in front end either. So JavaScript and and all of, that. And the documentation was just amazing. Without any prior knowledge to Rust or anything. I had everything, that I wanted to to have and I also have had zero experience in blockchain development either. So I knew what a smart contract was and the concept of it. But I did not know any subtlety about TTLs and lifetime and all of, that and how you deploy a contract and and all this this nitty-gritty and all this nitty-gritty details. I had no clue about all the complexity and the documentation was just just a breeze to to to read and yeah. When I had questions, which were not answered the community was just amazing to like the Discord and also on Twitter people are super helpful. So it's just easy I would say. Great. So. When when you started developing on on Stellar did you started developing on Stellar did you have a purpose? Was a problem? Was
there a project you wanted to build or did your current project come along later? How how does, that happen? Yeah. Know I at first I really started with some I did not have like a concrete idea I wanted. I had some some problem, that I had in my head, that I wanted to to do. Maybe some people in the audience also saw saw some some in the audience also saw some of these. I had an idea with a I had a Raspberry Pi and I wanted to build like a gimmified platform where you actually you have a a pump and you use actually you pump and as much as you pump. If you pass a threshold and it's going to to do a trigger and and to send some to do a trigger and to send some tokens. So I had something like, that that I hacked away. That was my first contract actually and yeah, that's, that's what I built first and I even made a YouTube video about it. And. So yeah, I did one idea like, that and the second one, that I did was I wanted to explore around the tokenization of
things and make a a token and. But push a bit further. And. So there I was okay I had this idea of looking at live data. So weather data. And so I was looking at the the expansion of the ice and the contraction of the ice in the Arctic. And I was like, okay, I'm going to put, that data and use, that data to either mint or burn a token. And. So I had sort of an oracle in mind. And. So I built another project like, that. And building these two project gave me some confidence into building smart contract interacting with the community as well. And all everything is working basically. Great. I think, that I think it's a really good way to learn like build something fun, something maybe not super serious. But kind of get some experience building something, that you enjoy to do and where you can get some user interactions and and see some user interactions and see people enjoy it. So I think, that's a great, way to to start get
great, that's a great way to start get building something more let's say more serious. So can you maybe talk a little bit about the project you are working on and I know you have a presentation as well. We can go into it a little bit. I think it's super interesting to see see what the interesting to see what the community is building. So I guess I need to upload the tech. So, oh perfect. Okay. Yes. So, the project I'm building is called Tensu. And so the background of all of, that is, that as I said earlier, I'm a maintainer of some famous open source project in in scientific Python. So one of them is called Cypi and Cypi is downloaded close to 100 millions of time per month. So it's it's really huge. Per month. So it's really huge. It's really one of the powerhouse of
all the scientific Python tools like packages like a psychic learn. If you do some AI or PyTorch behind the scene they they leverage these tools. And. So I've been a maintainer of this tool for like five years or something like, that and also deeply involved here in the open source world. And so I know the challenges, that the maintainer face are facing and also I know also the the struggle, that can come to into using the the software and I wanted to try to solve some of the problems, that I've seen by building a tool, which is sort of interacting with with GitHub. So I'm of interacting with GitHub. So I'm not envisioning to replace GitHub at all. Because I think GitHub is nice to store the the code and nice to store the code and everything. But I think we're missing on on two key areas, which are first of all the security. Because I think in GitHub. Now they're building tools around security and and around securing the supply chain and. Because when you're
building something on GitHub at the end of the day what you want to to ship is a of the day what you want to ship is a software and artifact and GitHub. Now has tools in order to to secure a bit all of tools in order to secure a bit all of, that and to ensure the provenence and to ensure, that the code was not altered and things like, that. But I think there's still like a long way to to go into still like a long way to go into really fully secure, that. And the other aspect, which is the aspect, that I wanted to to really cover with my tool. When I started to to build is the community aspect. I'm saying, that. Because as a maintainer of of of a big tool like, that, how is the typical workflow in the governance going is, that you have a mainly list and you post your idea on the main list and sometimes it's sitting there for years and maybe somebody's replying and saying oh you have a good idea or not. And then there's a bunch of discussion happening it's never fair it's never really transparent there are a lot of background discussion happening lot of lobbying and I wanted to have something, which allow the committee to
be a bit more transparent to have a ways to to really push ideas and have all the ideas evaluated in a fair manner, transparent manner. And so that's really on the idea side and another point, that people also may may know about free open source software is the the free aspect source software is the free aspect it's a double edged world in the sense, that there's a lot of people who wants to to build this software they are dependent the pond. But then at the end of the day we have a limited amount of time. We all have jobs and it will be better it will help. If you will get compensating sometime for the the effort and, that you put into this software and some big project like scypi we do get some some funding. So scypi we do get some funding. So it's it's very modest I have to say right. Now in the bank account of scypai maybe there's around $100,000 and, that's a software, which is as I said used by millions of user around the world really dependent upon
and there are 30 maintainers ers active on the project. So it's huge and something like 100k is not doing going to to help anything. You can you can barely hire one or two developer fulltime. If you wanted to and, that's the budget we we managed to get after 10 years of funding or something like, that. So there's really limited budget and and also the way it's being collected and distributed it's not very transparent. And. So with tonsu I want to to have tools in order to be able to distribute this money a bit more fairly. Because now. When you would get a grant for instance maybe you split the grant into some principal investigators or two or three people. But what about all the people reviewing your code contributing to all this discussion and everything there's a lot of people who are left aside there and I want to try to to have tools a bit for for to try to have tools a bit for, that. So, Tanu is just a platform on top of GitHub, which is the goal is to help with putting really
decentralization back into Git. Because yeah, GitHub is one this one giant platform, which is very centralized. You push your code on it. But then. If tomorrow you you're not happy with the state of the world or something, you can decide to change your code there. And this can have drastic consequences on on on all the people that that depends on you. Because on GitHub, you can just force push on the main branch. There is not much history. If you don't monitor it, you won't know, that anything happened and you can really break people there. same goes with the community. You can really not listen to what what what people are not listen to what what people are saying. You can push in electoral decisions and things like, that. Nothing is really fair. And. So here I want to have tonsu, which really gives the community a voice and also have decentralized organization basically, that allows to do specific actions in a trustless manner basically and yeah by the way. If anybody
has any questions I'm not sure I see. If there is anything in the chat. So far. But yeah feel free to to stop me. Yeah, I yeah feel free to stop me. Yeah, I don't see any questions. So far. But yeah, anyone who has questions, feel free to ask in the chat. Perfect. And yeah, we'll soon drop to a demo, that will be there. And. So so okay, what is Tanu today? So Tanu. So far received funding from from SDF two funings. So which allow to to build the following, which allow to build the following. So on the left side. So a smart contract and a dApp, which are on test net. I also managed to build a decentralized organization. So from scratch I'm not depending on anything. The only thing I'm depending on, which is a gra project it's a roban domains. That's my way to sort of prevent people to abuse a bit the system. I force people. When they register the project to have a solar band domain for their project. And. So this way you have a collateral for the project itself and. If people abuse and create too many project we can deal with, that with with bandan domain. And
that with bandan domain. And. Then I added some some features to. Then I added some features to start to give some money to project. So this is the support feature. And on the security side I have this commit the hash on chain, which I will show later what I'm working on right now. I'm actually I have an open pull request to add anonymous voting to the system. I believe, that would be the first anonymous voting platform on on Stellar. So I'm pretty excited about, that. Everything's working. On the smart contract side basically right. Now I'm just reworking a bit the the dApp itself to make it work. So I really hope to have, that out. I don't know maybe in one week or two weeks. Because yeah the the front end side as I. said I'm not a front end developer. I do have some help from a front end dev and yeah. Because I have the day job it's it's a bit hectic and sometimes I have to to push some nights to to try to to to push some nights to try to push things. But it's getting there. I have another friends actually who's
helping me on the next point. So critical vulnerability analysis and things like, that. We want to push all this information on chain and to link this information with the state of the project. And same for the res artifact. So adding more features towards the decentralized part decentralized organization part and also to the security part. That's the focus right now. Yeah, that's just a quick road map, that that I have in quick road map, that I have in mind. So as I said I had SCF award, which all to kickstart all of, that. We build I built all, that in one quarter basically to to have the the first basically to have the first P and to be on test net. So was pretty fast. Because I had really a clear idea what I wanted to do. And. Now I'm really in this SCF build. I already finished the first trench. I'm on the second trench and I'm beginning to collaborate with another great project trustful to add a layer on the
decentralization part. I actually don't want to use a token really for the this for the organization. I want to use a trustbased system. It's a bit similar to how nodes are talking to each other in the consensus protocol and Stellar. We using trust and here I want to also use trust, that we place on people on maintainer and on participant in the community. So the more active you are in the community and the more good social impact you make in these communities you will get basically badges. This is the the concept, that badges. This is the concept, that trustful is is bringing and and with trustful is bringing and with this you will get actually your voting power. So I prefer, that over having just a monetary incentive u. Because yeah money is lacking. I prefer the money to go to a the support of the project than than, that. There's a question like launch to sponsor transaction. I actually have to look into launchship. Because to be completely honest, I still don't really understand what
launchship is is fully doing. But definitely I see a lot of people talking about it and and and I on the call sometimes to to see I hope on the call sometimes to see what Tyler is is building. And so so what Tyler is building. And so yeah I will definitely have to look into into, that to pay tax fees for this interaction. Yes. So, that's the. So for. Now I don't put any premium or on any features but, that's something I will need to think about. If one day I really want to make this profitable in a way. But right. Now I There is nothing like and you can see the code everything is open source pay master sponsor. Yeah. Okay. And. But yeah right. Now there's zero fees and the only way, that right. Now tonsu would make any money is there. When you click on the support button, which I will show you can decide to leave a tip to the platform. Right. Now there is just, that and yeah, that brings me actually to the presentation of the D itself. And. If I manage to present the tech
share screen, that's this one tech can I share I can share it yes perfect. So yeah you can. So the main website of Tensu it's just tensu.dev here you can find some rough documentation. I'm saying rough. Because I have the I'm a back end dev. So I my tendency is to write code and forget a bit the documentation. But there's still some documentation to to go through to some documentation to go through to how to create your new project explaining a bit of rational about the soran Soroban domain. I also have a concept of a tonsu file to describe a bit your project. Basically, it's a way to map your GitHub profile to your Stellar address. That's one of the main feature. And the other feature is just to give to to to have some
to give to to have some social link attached to your project. Because I don't want to store all of, that on a smart contract. And u something I have to mention is, that I'm trying everything I can to not have a back end at all. Because I really believe in in decentralization and and I think, that that's really what we were trying to do here in blockchain in general and to me using a backend and having something hosted on GCP or AWS would sort of defeat a bit the purpose of everything we're trying to do. So I'm trying to have everything running locally on the client side and. If not. Then it's running on the contract. So there's no database or anything like, that. And I'm really trying everything I can to to avoid all of, that. I mean even think about using distributed database using IPFS and things like, that. If ever I have the needs to use a database. There's also developer sections to discuss a bit about the architecture. So things, which are also in the SCF proposal, that you you can you
the SCF proposal, that you can have a look at. Then the contract address and and some links and the the app itself. So I can directly jump into the h. And so yeah, that's the main app. So. If you ever went into the app you will notice, that it's really different now. Because I just merged like two days ago this revamp of the UI. So I'm really happy with the result. I had the design designer team working for two months on it. So thanks to the SEAF funding, that I was able to do, that. That's pretty amazing. So the logo and everything and all the look and feel u it's really helped me a lot made it possible. So how is the app is working is, that basically you you have your project. So yeah you can search for a project it's a normal search. So tansu I have tonsu. If I don't find anything it's going to tell me oh there is nothing on chain. And then I can create a new project. So
I'm not going to do, that here just going to an existing project. So tansu. So here you have a bit of details. And then you look at your project itself. So I register tonsu and tonsu it can be a bit confusing Sorry. Because yeah, I wanted to to manage my own project with my own tool basically. So what is the project page? I can quickly go over it. So you have some some quick information here. You have this famous support button, which allows you to to give some tips to, which allows you to give some tips to the the tools, that you use. If you like what they're doing. So here as I said, that's the only way, that right. Now tons protocol will be receiving any funding. So by entering here an amount. So here you can do, that. Quickly on the wallet side. Because here there was a there was something to sign I'm using the Stellar wallet kit. So this is
on. But you may want to look into protocol. That's running aware. But interesting. Okay thank you. I will have a look. Let me copy, that. All right, copy, that. Thanks. Thanks, Matias. yeah. And. So here the main information, that you have and the information, which is actually stored on chain is this thing the last hash. So yeah here you see I have a bug apparently. Because you don't see the hash. But you you see it hash. But you see it here being being represented. So you have all the hashes here and you can actually go onchain and see the project itself. So let me just quickly go there. So here's the contract itself and every time you do something yeah you would see it here and here are all the
entries. And so how is the project defined let me try to find it. So yeah here here's the the project defined. So here is saliv. But had tonsu yeah here's the project how it's defined so, that's, that's basically the information store on chain I saw the project name some config itself. So who are the maintainer of the project. So who has really access on it. And and after, that I have some some other metadata associated to, that and the the main metadata right. Now is the the last state of the project on GitHub, which is a commit hash. So this is this store in in another entry. So is this seems yeah exactly this, that key for tensu here is the same as here last hash and, that's the last hash, which is register right now, which correspond to a commit, which exist and so. If I go back. When there is actually a match with unshaded data
and the data, that you find on GitHub it's indicating you, that everything is fine here you have a green tick and so. If somebody would compromise GitHub basically and overwrite the commits on GitHub. This will get read and I in the future I will add some triggers, which will send some notification to people to say, that hey something happened on GitHub versus what's on chain. So, that's one of the main security feature, that I have right. Now and the same goes with the configuration to say who's maintainer who's not maintainer. So this is check against the this tomal this this tensu tomal file, that is I'm comparing the data, which is in this file with the data, that have function to to have this this sort of check. So yeah here you have the the commit here you have this commit, that we just saw this F72, which was on, which is verified and. Because I defined some maintainer this is the last one, that I've done to and here I'm a verified maintainer in this list. So you have
some indication here of what's on chain and and to be able to verify, that. So, that's the first part, the security part and the most important part for me is really this governance part. And so. If I go on the governance, that's really your your DAO. You have not the Dow for the complete for for Tanu. But for every single project you you get a Dow, your own D. So this page will look different for everybody. And maybe. If I go back to the explorer itself, I can quickly show it. Here you have the DA of Tensu basically here and here you have all the list of proposal. And so on you can directly see who voted who approved or abstain and what's the status of the vault the title and here you have something you have IPFS. Because I don't store the proposal themselves on chain. But I use
themselves on chain. But I use IPFS. So once again I see some questions detail from the Gitcoin yeah I look into Gitcon. Actually. If you look. If you go to see my proposals for SCF, you will find the technical documentation and at the end of the technical documentation, I made a I had a look at everything, which was out there around G around decentralization and all of this concept and I made a comparative analysis of what I think of missing or was good and I'm trying to combine all of the the nice concept and have it there. Basically what is the actual data, that is being stored on chain for the project I worried about state expiration. So yeah the data on chain I hope I'm answering right. Now the questions and otherwise for the state expiration yeah, that's something actually I'm still thinking about it exactly how it should work and how I should extend all the TTLS and things. Because I'm I'm not sure TTLS and things. Because I'm not sure actually right. Now so. So for. Now I'm
actually right. Now so for. Now I'm not really dealing with it. Because I'm I'm still on test. So I still have the freedom to do, that. But, that's definitely something I'm looking into. I have an openish on, that to. But I still need to to take more time to just think about how the the workflow is think about how the workflow is going to to work this how should I pronounce your Discord name. Tupi it's my second name actually. I asked the same question before we joined. Yeah, it's a classical question. All right. So going back on the proposals themselves. So let me just open a proposal to see how it looks like. So this data as I just shown before is stored on IPFS. So what you just saw right. Now is loading the data from IPFS. As I said there's no back end or anything and everything's running client side. So this was loaded from IPFS. That's the proposal itself. When you create a proposal you can put an image, you can put whatever you want. I have
like a markdown editor. You can put tables and all of, that. And. Then all goes to IPFS. So I can actually open the the link and you will show how it is. Yeah, it's loading. It's funny. It's loading faster on my thing than the IPFS itself. Wasn't he in Austria? Yeah, I'm living in Austria in Jenna. But I'm French coming from Tahiti. If you want this to be even more confusing. Okay, I the IPFX Explorer. I don't know what is happening. But yeah, you see the link here. It's a IPFS link. yeah, it's not loading for some reason. And I mean, this is not my my internet. I don't know. Starting again. No, I mean the link is there. I don't know. IPFS. But it's
loading here. So, you have it here. one concept I have on the D itself, it's pretty surprised. Yes. One concept I have with the the DA proposal concept I have with the DA proposal is, that I have the concept of outcome. And so. When a proposal is accepted it can execute. When when you're going to can execute. When you're going to execute the proposal itself and to have the the tally being calculated you're actually going to be able to say okay. If it's approved please execute, that transaction. And so here you have an example of of ex, that I put. So here in this it's a trivial example, that I put here. But you can put any When you create a proposal and so. If the. When you execute a proposal You're going to have like a screen telling you this is going to be executed. When you actually execute the proposal. And. So the ting is going to be made and this is going to be also also sent. So what what going to be also sent. So what can you use, that for? You can use this
for instance to add a m not just to pay people. But to me it was to do some special action for maintainers. For instance. If you wanted to change the structure of your governance, you can say you can have a proposal saying, "Oh, yeah, what about we add I don't know pumpfield to to this other community." And so you will make a proposal and the the XDR itself would just be to call the tanu contract itself and to add myself to another project and people. When they vote and. When you execute, that. Then I would be able to be added automatically into the into, that new organization. So this way you can really manage your the the whole governance manage your project on chain as well or the aspect, that you have on chain. And also you can yeah have font distributions and all of, that. And what I want to to do afterwards is. So right Now it's very manual. You have to create your own XDR and paste it there. But what I want to have is templates, that people can use and they will be
able to to have like I don't know a drop down. And then select yeah I want to add a maintainer. Boom. And. Then you will have a few fields to fill and boom it will just pre build the easier for you. And I also want to be able to have some things, that you preign. And then everything is being able to be executed automatically and things like, that. So this is coming. But the main feature right. Now is is there is you you feature right. Now is there is you have this ex, that you can execute and yeah I think, that's basically it. If you have any questions, I don't know. If there was any other questions. I think you got through all of them. Perfect. Yeah, super exciting to see it. I I've been poking around a little bit just to play with it and I think it looks great. I think it's it's a Thank you. It's a great great great project and yeah, I love to see how much you decentralize the the DAB as well. So. So
decentralize the DAB as well. So. So yeah, really really interesting yeah, really interesting projects. do did do you have anything else in the presentation, the other presentation?, no, that, was it. yeah. I mean, my next big thing is really to to bring anonymous thing is really to bring anonymous voting there. this I'm really excited about. I've been working like a lot on, that and learning as well. I knew nothing about zero knowledge and homorphic encryption and all of, that and I just got the idea. When I saw the Protocol 22 update, that it was bringing, that. And then I started to look into it and I really like the concept and I think, that's bring quite some value to to the project. If I had, that feature. And so yeah the I have an open source an open pull request everybody can check out the code and yeah please feel free to to also use yeah please feel free to also use what I've discovered And. When what about to for your own project?
Okay. Yes. So Matias is asking yeah using NQG for for the voting. Yes using NQG for the voting. Yes sort of like with this badges, that I want to use. So the trustful the project, that I want to use. They they have this concept of badge and I want to sort of have some neurons, which are how many badges do you have and what kind of badges do you have? And this maybe with on top things like okay how many times you we can actually in the history of GitHub we can find your name and this will maybe give you like a power on the the actions, that you have on chain to say oh you're an active maintainer and you can also have like some crown job running in the background to say oh. If you've not been active for, that that long code wise. Then maybe we remove your code access and things like, that. So you can I'm really thinking about all these kind of things on pola dot. No, I did not know
about about, that. It's great. That's why I like Stellar. So much. Have. So many people giving you ideas like, that and sharing interesting things. Thanks. Just. Now I feel compelled to please do have a look. Everything is open. Right. Now it's very easy. I have a monor repo. Because yeah I'm just working myself basically on it and yeah it's it's on my GitHub profile. So GitHub tonsu. And then Soroban versioning is called the the repo. Yeah it's great. I love you you bring a lot of new ideas to the table here. I think there's some of the solutions you're working on is something we probably haven't seen or haven't seen a lot of in the community. So I hope this is a an inspiration for everyone else to go and take a look at at at your project, take a look at the code, see some how how you're
the code, see some how you're solving some of these these challenges or creating some of these creative solutions to to sometimes well-known problems or some new problems, new ways of doing things. So, it was really great to get the opportunity to chat with to and to see the project you're working on and yeah, thank you so much for joining. Thank you very much for the invite and yeah, thanks for the audience for all the nice questions. Okay, great. I think we'll wrap it up here then. We will be back next Thursday and. If anyone out there has a cool project, that they would like to talk about here on the still a developer meeting please reach out to me. I think it's very interesting to see some of these projects and and and talk to to the the projects and and talk to the developers behind it and hear some of their their thinkings about how some of their thinkings about how how they they solve these problems. So thank you everyone for joining. I see
you next week. Thank you. Thanks everybody. Bye.